Advertise your product or brand here
contact www.OpenSubtitles.org today
Report.
The lmperial Guard will die
at their posts...
I know they are willing to die.
Will they survive?
We're holding our positions for now.
But the enemy's deployed new units
here and here.
They're looking for a weakness.
They may have found it.
We've taken more casualties.
I've received a communiqué.
The Vulcans want to discuss terms
for a cease fire.
Have you ever known a Vulcan
who wouldn't lie to get what he wanted?
There is another option.
Someone I've dealt with. A pinkskin.
He's proven to be quite even-handed
in dealing with Vulcans.
His name is Archer.
It's been a long road
Gettin' from there to here
It's been a long time
But my time is finally near
And I will see my dream
Come alive at last
I will touch the sky
And they're not gonna
Hold me down no more
No, they're not gonna change my mind
'Cause I've got faith of the heart
I'm going where my heart will take me
I've got faith to believe
I can do anything
I've got strength of the soul
And no one's gonna bend or break me
I can reach any star
I've got faith
Faith of the heart
You're sure he wants me?
Ambassador Soval said your presence
is crucial to resolving the crisis.
What's this planet called again?
The Vulcan name is Paan Mokar...
but the Andorians call it Weytahn.
It's on a frontier between their systems.
Both sides claim it belongs to them.
They've nearly gone to war over it
twice in the past century.
How do they expect me to help...
settle a conflict they haven't been
able to resolve in 100 years?
Soval says you'll be fully briefed
when you arrive.
Jonathan, this is the first time
the Vulcans have asked for our help.
You're the closest thing we have
to an ambassador out there.
You know how important this could be.
We'll get there as fast as we can.
I don't like pushing
the engines this hard.
The injectors are running at 110%.
They're rated for 120%.
Yeah, and my underwear's
flame retardant.
That doesn't mean I'll light myself
on fire to prove it.
I think we'll make it in one piece, Trip.
I've been reading about Paan Mokar
in the Vulcan database.
It doesn't say a lot. Class-D,
not much bigger than Earth's moon...
claimed by the Vulcans in 2097.
Class-D? That's uninhabitable.
Why are you fighting over it?
When the Andorians
first arrived a century ago...
they began to terraform the planet.
Once an atmosphere was developed,
they established a settlement.
If it was unclaimed at the time,
why would there be a problem?
Lts sole value is its strategic location
near Vulcan space.
They were setting up a military base?
- It was the only logical conclusion.
- Was there any evidence?
How much evidence would you need...
if the Klingons decided to set up
a colony on Pluto?
That's not the same thing.
The Andorians refused to let
the High Command inspect the colony.
So, they annexed Paan Mokar
to protect their territory.
What happened
to the Andorian colonists?
They were removed.
By force.
They left the High Command
little choice.
A surveillance satellite was put
into orbit to monitor the agreement.
The planet's been deserted
for nearly a century.
Until now.
Captain's Starlog, supplemental.
In the three days it's taken us...
to reach Paan Mokar, the situation
has grown considerably more tense.
Unbelievable.
I damn near burn up the warp reactor
getting here, and they make us wait.
- Welcome aboard, Ambassador.
- Thank you, Captain.
This is Subcommander Muroc.
T'Pol's been filling me in
on the situation here...
but I still have a lot of questions.
If you don't mind, Captain,
I have a question of my own.
Why would an officer
of the Andorian lmperial Guard...
personally request your involvement?
I don't understand.
I was told you asked for me.
I'm involved in extremely difficult
and dangerous negotiations.
I don't consider your presence
here an asset.
If that's how you feel...
we'll gladly continue with our mission.
Six days ago,
an Andorian Regimental Commander...
named Shran landed a force
on Paan Mokar...
and occupied the settlement.
Shran.
Naturally, we attempted to enforce
the treaty of 2097.
Naturally.
We've regained control
of half the colony...
but two dozen Vulcans
have been wounded...
and three have been taken hostage.
Shran has agreed to discuss terms
for their safe return...
but only if you act as mediator.
For some reason,
he finds you trustworthy.
You're asking for my help.
Yes, Captain, I'm asking for your help.
I'll see what I can do.
Forgive my candour,
but that's hardly reassuring.
The last time you dealt
with the Andorians...
a Vulcan intelligence site
was compromised...
and a priceless monastery destroyed.
Subcommander Muroc will accompany
you to represent our interests.
Obviously, I'm here
at the request of the Andorians.
Shran believes he can trust me.
I don't intend to prove him wrong
by going down there...
with a Vulcan officer in tow.
If you insist I bring a Vulcan along...
I'll take the one I know I can trust.
- You wanted to see me, Doc?
- Yes.
This planet is home to a rather
pernicious mutagenic pathogen.
I'll need to bombard your immune
system with analeptic radiation...
to protect you
while you're on the surface.
- Bombard?
- It's quite painless, I assure you.
What about T'Pol?
Vulcan physiology isn't affected
by the pathogen. Shall we?
This should only take a moment.
If I may ask, how did your first
meeting with the Vulcans go?
- Warm and friendly as ever.
- Ironic.
They weren't overly enthusiastic about
you taking command in the first place...
and now your presence is crucial
to their interests.
It's crucial to ours, too.
Maybe we're not out here to just
scan comets and meet new species.
Maybe we're out here to prove that...
humanity's ready to join
a much larger community.
I intend to do that,
whether the Vulcans like it or not.
All finished.
Captain...
I served as a medic
in the Denobulan infantry.
If I learned anything
from that experience...
it's that battlefields
are unpredictable places...
even under a flag of truce. Be careful.
We've lost the navigational sensors...
and the comm.
It's the Andorian jamming signal.
I'm entering the landing coordinates
they gave us.
Let's hope they're accurate.
Did you have a chance to read
the Territorial Compromise?
I glanced at it.
The Compromise is
at the heart of the dispute.
- It's worth your attention.
- It's 1,200 pages long.
Did you glance at any of the other
materials I sent to your quarters?
V'Lar's Treatise on negotiating tactics
is the definitive text on the subject.
I got all of it. V'Lar's Treatise,
the revised Intersystem Agreement...
the High Command briefing
on the border incursions of 2112.
- I was up till 2:00 a.m.
- Glancing?
Are you trying to tell me something?
That maybe I'm not prepared for this?
Ambassador Soval clearly
believes you'll fail.
I was hoping some advance preparation
would help you prove him wrong.
Thanks.
But I doubt I'm going to impress Shran
by quoting Vulcan treaties.
I assume you have a strategy.
The first thing is to convince Shran
that he can trust me.
And then?
We're just going to have
to play it by ear.
Are you sure these are the coordinates?
Yes.
Don't move, Vulcan.
Captain.
We're not armed.
I'm Captain Jonathan Archer.
I'm here to see Commander Shran.
He's expecting you,
without a Vulcan escort.
I wasn't told to come alone.
This is my Science Officer.
She helped expose
the Vulcan listening post at P'Jem.
I thought Shran might
enjoy seeing her again.
I imagined my first diplomatic mission
would involve...
sitting around a big table,
toasting with champagne...
signing things with lots of pens.
The pinkskin sense of humour.
My apologies
for the security precautions.
We can never be too vigilant
when it comes to Vulcans.
They say the same thing about you.
I'm sure they do.
We're aggressive, illogical.
Prove them wrong.
That's why you're here, Captain,
to help us do just that.
I've dealt with the Vulcans twice before,
where you were involved.
Both times, you handled the situation
without prejudice.
I hope I can help again.
But the first thing I need
is to see the hostages.
Hostages? Criminals take hostages.
Kidnappers looking for ransom
take hostages.
I assume you're referring
to the enemy soldiers we captured.
The Vulcans want to know
they're all right.
They haven't been harmed.
Are you all right?
When they attacked us,
two of my men were badly wounded.
They're lucky we didn't kill them.
You provoked this situation when
you violated the Territorial Compromise.
Only a Vulcan could call
100 years of oppression...
a compromise.
You annexed a planet
that belongs to us...
herded our people into refugee camps.
After you set up a military outpost here.
As you can see, Captain,
even after 100 years...
this situation still evokes anger
on both sides.
We will release our prisoners
on the following conditions:
Immediate withdrawal
of all Vulcan military forces...
the so-called Compromise
is to be rescinded...
and the Vulcans must concede...
irrevocable sovereignty
of Weytahn to Andoria.
You don't expect them
to agree to all that.
I told you. He's a puppet of the Vulcans.
For the record...
the Vulcan High Command
doesn't like me very much...
and, frankly, the feeling is mutual.
If all you need is someone
to deliver your list of demands...
find somebody else.
I've got other things to do.
The Vulcans always say
they're ready to talk...
but it amounts to nothing.
Treaty negotiations that drag on
for years. I want to speak to Soval...
somebody who can
deal with the situation...
without having to check
with his superiors.
- I'll see what I can do.
- Here. On my terms.
That might be a little difficult.
- This is pointless.
- But not impossible.
The thing is, he's going
to want something in return.
Haven't they already taken enough?
I'm talking about a gesture,
something to show you're serious.
I came down here to see
about the hostages.
- Why don't you let them go?
- And give away our only advantage?
- No.
- Release two of them, then.
Keep the other one
until after you've met with Soval.
One, as a show of our good faith.
- Unacceptable.
- You got one of your men back.
And in exchange
you'll deliver me into their hands?
I'm sure the Andorians were impressed
with your negotiating skills.
They want to talk to you, not kidnap you.
If I agree to a meeting,
it simply legitimises their position.
And if you don't, these negotiations
end before they begin.
That may happen sooner
than you realise.
While you were on the surface...
we detected
three Andorian vessels approaching.
They'll be here in less than five hours.
They probably intend to re-supply
their troops on the surface.
We won't allow that.
Engaging an Andorian vessel could be
construed as an act of war.
That will be their decision.
Both sides are responsible
for what happens here.
You don't understand the complexities
of this situation.
With all due respect, Ambassador...
why did you agree to let me go down
there if you won't listen to my advice?
I didn't request your help, Captain.
And I don't feel obliged to accept it.
You claim the Andorians are inflexible.
At least they're willing
to sit down and talk.
The ball's in your court now.
It's a human expression.
It means the next move is yours.
This isn't wise.
The colony hasn't been secured.
Didn't you hear the Captain?
The ball is in our court.
I don't like this.
With the interference,
you can't contact the ship...
- if something goes wrong.
- They're expecting us. We'll be fine.
Andorian ships will be here
in four hours.
I plan on being back long before then.
T'Pol said that Territorial Compromise
they were talking about...
took eight years to work out.
I'll try to speed things up this time.
Bring them here as soon as they land,
and treat the Vulcan with respect.
Yes, sir.
If I may speak.
You don't have to.
I know what you're going to say.
We discovered this planet.
We made it liveable. It belongs to us.
- Don't worry. It'll be ours again.
- How? By talking?
We've been trying that for 100 years...
and it's gotten us nowhere.
They stall, and lie, and make promises
they never intend to keep.
We came here to fight.
Why back down now?
I'm willing to give Archer
another chance.
You put too much faith
in these pinkskins.
We know nothing about them...
except that they're friends
of the Vulcans.
Not always. I've seen that for myself.
If we attack now,
we can have the Vulcans...
on the defensive before our ships arrive.
Your recommendation is noted.
Our troops are ready.
There's no reason to wait.
Enough.
I value your opinion, Tarah...
but that does not allow you
to question my commands.
Dismissed.
They'll send some soldiers to meet us.
I'm afraid they'll want to blindfold you.
It's just a security precaution.
Thank you for the reassurance.
Now if you don't mind, I'll need a few
moments of silence to prepare myself.
Of course.
- T'Pol?
- Weapons fire.
I can't pinpoint the source.
- Archer to Enterprise.
- We're still within their jamming range.
I suggest we cancel the negotiations
and return to your ship.
For once we're in full agreement.
Direct hit to our starboard engine.
Main power is off-line.
You see who
you're dealing with, Captain?
If you don't mind, Ambassador.
- We're losing altitude, 200 metres.
- I'm going to bring us in on thrusters.
100 metres.
- 50. We need to reduce our speed.
- The ground is going to do that for us.
Brace yourselves.
Any idea where we are?
The southeast quadrant,
near the old spaceport.
I told you I negotiated the last accord.
I also served here.
You were with the occupation force?
As an intelligence officer,
a long time ago.
Our current deployment has
a base of operations that way...
about two-and-a-half kilometres.
I appreciate your help, Ambassador,
but we're looking for the Andorians.
Circumstances have altered our plans.
I gave my word to Shran.
I intend to keep it.
Shran just tried to kill us.
We don't know that.
I suppose you think our troops
are responsible for this.
Sensors and communications
are off-line.
There's weapons fire flying all over the
place. We don't know what happened.
Are you that naive? Shran is using you.
This is a man who couldn't sleep...
because he thought
he owed me something.
I don't believe he asked me
to come a dozen light-years...
just so I could lead you into a trap.
Right now, it seems
like the best thing to do...
is to get a cease-fire in place.
The Andorians won't agree to that
until they talk to you in person.
I managed to keep us on course
most of the way in.
We can't be more than a kilometre
from Shran's landing coordinates.
How would you know? We can't pick up
anything through the interference.
Our scanners are
more sophisticated than yours.
We detected weapons fire
coming from the surface.
Then your shuttle appeared to make...
an emergency landing
somewhere in the colony.
Where?
We have been unable
to locate their landing site...
but our units on the ground
are already searching.
The High Command instructed me...
to take steps to recover
Ambassador Soval.
- And our officers?
- Of course.
We want to be involved
in any rescue operation.
We have more experience
in these matters.
I know.
I saw your commando units
blast the hell out of a rebel compound...
during a rescue mission.
We won't allow this provocation
to continue.
You don't even know where they are.
Do you think it's a good idea
to go there with guns blazing?
Our response will be appropriate.
I'll keep you informed, Commander.
Any luck?
I'm trying, sir,
but if the Vulcans can't find them...
- See what you can do.
- Yes, sir.
How far away are those Andorian ships?
Three hours at their present speed.
That shuttle was to be left alone.
I gave specific orders.
- And they were followed.
- Then who fired those shots?
The Vulcans, I suppose, trying to kill
their own Ambassador?
Is that so unlikely?
Some of my men saw weapons fire
coming from their positions.
It's Vulcan subterfuge, I'm sure of it.
What better way for them to justify
an invasion...
than to blame us for killing their envoy?
They are devious, but I doubt
they would go that far.
You act as if they have
some moral code.
They have no conscience,
only their precious logic.
They'll do anything to drive us off
this planet.
We should never have agreed
to negotiate.
You're not happy with the way
I've handled this situation?
- Of course I am, sir.
- The Sector Two report, sir.
Put all our positions on alert.
I want Soval and the pinkskin
brought to me alive.
If they're looking for an excuse to attack,
we won't give it to them.
I'll see to it myself.
Perhaps you were farther off course
than you thought.
You've been here before.
I don't suppose you'd care to help?
It's been almost 100 years.
I thought Vulcans
had exceptional memories.
This is the old residential quarter.
According to our latest intelligence...
the Andorians control the settlement
west of here.
If we keep moving this way,
we should be...
Down!
Not quite the warm welcome
you expected, Captain?
They're not shooting at us.
The Vulcan units must be
advancing their positions.
We should try to make contact.
I don't recommend
sticking your neck out right now.
What do you recommend?
Wandering through these ruins
until we find an Andorian soldier...
and trust he's been informed
not to shoot us on site?
I'll take a look. Stay here.
- Captain.
- That's an order.
No offence, but my ears are
less likely to draw fire than yours.
- What is their fixation with our ears?
- I believe they're envious.
Do you realise you've picked up
a slight human accent?
You were one of the most promising
members of my staff, T'Pol.
If you'd stayed in San Francisco,
you'd be the Assistant Counsel by now.
You might even have a diplomatic
posting of your own.
I'm aware of that.
Then why have you remained
on Enterprise?
We believed they needed our help
when they first developed warp drive.
That hasn't changed.
Captain Archer's record
is evidence of that.
But there are others
who can assist them.
I find the work gratifying.
Gratification is
an emotional indulgence.
You disagreed
with our recommendation...
that Archer's mission be cancelled
after the tragedy at Paraaga Two. Why?
I was on board Enterprise at the time.
I felt my opinion would be welcomed.
You believed you knew better
than the High Command?
That sounds a great deal
like another emotion, arrogance.
Perhaps it's time for you
to consider another assignment.
Just because Captain Archer
has earned my respect...
doesn't mean I've been contaminated
by his emotions.
- Did you make contact?
- No. They're pulling back.
Let's keep moving.
Empty.
They're probably trying
to reach the Vulcans.
No. The pinkskin will want
to keep his part of the bargain.
They'll be looking for Shran.
- Commander.
- You have something?
I can't be sure.
- You see this EM differential here?
- That's the Captain?
It's definitely a bio-sign.
I'm 90% sure it's human.
At least we know he's alive.
Where is he?
I need another hour.
What's the status
on those Andorian ships?
They just dropped out of warp.
They'll be here in 13 minutes.
I think the Vulcans see them, too.
They're breaking orbit...
probably giving themselves
room to manoeuvre.
Put the ship on Tactical Alert.
Get down!
Go.
Over there.
Those are Andorian weapons.
Hold your fire!
How is he?
It isn't life-threatening,
but he needs medical attention.
We've brought the Vulcan Ambassador
to meet with Commander Shran!
It looks like two of them...
one on top of that structure...
the other on the ground.
If I can work my way around...
I might be able to come up
from behind them.
What do you expect me to do with this?
- Make sure they don't see me.
- I haven't fired a weapon in 50 years.
You don't have to hit anything,
just keep them occupied.
Really occupied
or I'm not going to get very far.
Hey.
- Range?
- 50,000 kilometres.
They're still heading right
for the Vulcan ships.
The Vulcans are charging weapons,
the Andorians as well.
Travis, lay in a new course.
I want you to put us right between them.
Aye, sir.
If you don't mind me asking,
what do you have in mind?
Drop your weapon.
I've never fired one of these before.
I'm not sure if it's set on stun.
T'Pol, cease fire!
It doesn't have a stun setting.
You fired on my shuttle.
You're trying to kill Soval...
undermine everything that Shran
is trying to do here, why?
Do you want a war with the Vulcans?
All we want is a chance to fight
for what's ours...
before cowards like Shran
negotiate it away.
You can take that up with him. Let's go.
We're being hailed by the Vulcans...
- and the Andorians.
- Put them both on.
This is Commander Tucker.
Captain Telev of the lmperial Guard.
Commander, I strongly recommend
you withdraw to a safe distance.
I agree.
We wouldn't want your vessel
to be damaged...
by debris from the Vulcan ships.
We will not allow the Andorians to land
additional troops on Paan Mokar.
It's called Weytahn!
And our personnel there
have been attacked.
We'll provide whatever support
they need.
Any vessel attempting
to enter orbit will be fired upon.
That includes yours, Subcommander.
We appreciate your support,
Commander Tucker.
Don't.
I'll open fire on any ship
that makes an aggressive move.
Phase-cannons?
- Locked and ready.
- This is not a Starfleet matter.
As long as my Captain is stuck
in the middle of your war zone... it is.
The Andorians have made it impossible
for us to recover Captain Archer.
- By now, he's most likely a casualty.
- Don't count him out so fast.
We've managed to isolate
his bio-signature.
Now...
why don't you both give him
and Ambassador Soval...
a chance to do their jobs
before we start a war up here?
He was ready to kill me.
You saw for yourself.
Apparently, these pinkskins
aren't as honourable as you thought.
Are you all right?
I suppose I shot the Ambassador
to make my story more convincing.
Why would my Lieutenant...
a loyal member of the lmperial Guard,
lie to me?
Commander, it seems you're willing
to resolve this situation...
through peaceful means.
Do all your officers feel the same?
Have you considered there might
be Andorians who would want...
a war with Vulcan?
How long have I served with you?
Followed your orders
when it could have meant my life?
She's not the only one
who risked their life.
I said I'd bring Soval to meet you...
and we damn near got killed
getting him here.
I came because you asked me.
Because you thought I could be trusted.
Check Soval's wound, check our shuttle.
You'll find Andorian weapon signatures.
Is this true?
Answer me!
- What did you expect me to do?
- Follow my orders!
Orders to do nothing
while you betray us?
It's not too late to redeem yourself,
to make a stand.
I intend to.
Take her.
There are others who feel this way.
You'll see.
See to the Ambassador's wounds.
We have a lot to discuss.
The Vulcan ships
are breaking formation.
- They're heading for the planet.
- The Andorians are following, sir.
Arm the forward phase-cannons.
See if you can target their weapons.
We're being hailed from the surface.
It's the Captain.
Hold off, Malcolm. Put him through.
- Captain.
- Nice to hear your voice, Trip.
What's going on down there?
Are you okay?
T'Pol and I are fine.
We're at the Andorian command post.
Ambassador Soval's been injured,
but Shran's medics are treating him.
- Did you say Shran's medics?
- He's just being a good host.
The Andorians are allowing
the Vulcan ships...
- to move in and pick up their people.
- Glad you let us know.
Did you run into any problems up there?
Nothing we couldn't handle.
I'll fill you in later.
We had a pretty rough landing.
We'll need a ride back to the ship.
I'll send Travis down in Shuttlepod Two.
Acknowledged. Archer out.
Put us back in orbit, Travis,
and cancel the Tactical Alert.
Captain's Starlog, supplemental.
Ambassador Soval has begun talks
with the Andorians.
They've been difficult, but productive.
The lmperial Council
will not be satisfied...
until Vulcan recognises
our claim to Weytahn.
I believe someone once defined
a compromise as...
a solution that neither side
is happy with.
In that case, these talks
have been extremely successful.
I consider any negotiation
that averts war to be a success.
Join me...
in a drink to celebrate...
our mutual dissatisfaction.
Vulcans don't drink.
But this occasion merits an exception.
To the cease fire.
It wouldn't have been possible
without the help of our human friends.
And to the successful continuation
of these talks on Andoria.
I trust there'll be more accomplished
than just talk.
With your permission, I'll escort
Ambassador Soval to the airlock.
Of course.
Captain...
your presence here has not been...
overly meddlesome.
I think he likes you, pinkskin.
I wouldn't go that far.
Support us and become VIP member
to remove all ads from www.OpenSubtitles.org